Second file...
And Ok



My first file correct 2024.01.24
No test 2024.01.24



Prologue
The tangle of human consciousness, which consisted of billions of threads responsible for mental, mental and physical health, began to unwind, scattering fragments in different directions. The man was dying, and the threads that had previously been fastened and intertwined together, now, twitching convulsively, flew apart in an unknown space, where everything inexplicably merged together – life and death, space and time. Some of them, dead, fell off from the tangle in dead pieces, others, still alive, simply blossomed to their full length. At some point, one of these threads accidentally touched another end, fluttering in an invisible wind, from the tangle of another consciousness of a dying person. So the almost impossible happened. An unimaginably small, almost ghostly chance made it possible for two minds to merge – to imprint someone else's personality on another person's brain.
Chapter 1
It was a very strange dream.… The life of a man, a young man of seventeen, passed before my eyes with the smallest details and details, and this despite the fact that I rarely saw dreams in my life, and when I woke up, I no longer remembered what was in them. For a while, without opening my eyes, I tried to figure out how this could be. It was more than strange, since the memories of the young man did not disappear in the haze of dreams that faded in the morning, they sat tightly in my memory. Especially his last memory: the impudent pimply face of some big guy. A swing of a heavy fist. A sharp flash of pain, the earth moving away from under my feet, a piece of bright blue sky flashing before my eyes and ... darkness.
"It's like it's not a dream..."
No sooner had I thought that than I heard a slight snore.
"Wait! So, where am I?"
No sooner had the question popped into my head than I remembered how, climbing on a stepladder, I was putting an old criminal case in place. Having already begun to descend, awkwardly turning around, he transferred his body weight to the crippled leg, which was by no means impossible to do, since the leg assembled in parts by doctors had a bad ability to erupt in flashes of severe pain at the most unexpected moments. Neuralgia, damn it! I usually tried to sit down or shift my body weight to the other leg, which I did almost automatically, but the instability of the position I was in let me down. Jerking sharply, I staggered, then there was a fall from two meters, a strong flash of pain in my head and ... darkness. As soon as all this popped into my head, a guess came: "So I'm in the hospital. It must have hit me hard. I got a pretty concussion, since I have such long-lasting dreams."
To make sure, I opened my eyes. Despite the fact that it was night outside and the room was dark, the eye could easily make out the headboards of the beds against the white background of the walls. The hospital ward. I put my hand to my head. A bandage tightly wrapped around my head finally confirmed the correctness of my conclusion. Everything seemed to be correct and logical, but the inner anxiety did not want to dissipate, on the contrary, it grew stronger and stronger, as if it wanted to warn me about something. The cause of the incomprehensible alarm could only be a vivid and inexplicable dream.
"It's all a dream. A strange and incomprehensible dream..." – I tried to calm myself, but the next moment my gaze rested on the headboard of my bed. It was metal and painted white. At that very moment, the moon broke through the clouds, and its dim light penetrated into the ward. A dog barked hollowly somewhere outside, forcing me to automatically turn my head to the window. Wooden frame, painted white. Instead of curtains, there was a white curtain hanging on a string and covering only the lower half of the window. And... an open window. It was summer outside. I heard the rustle of leaves outside the window, and then a light warm breeze, rushing into the room from the slightly open window, brought with it a light and sweet aroma of herbs and flowers. My heart froze.
"This can't be happening. It just can't be. It's winter now! Winter! Today is February 16th!"

My hand pulled back the covers on its own, and I jerked up on the bed, but it seemed like I shouldn't have done that. The sudden movements raised a heavy wave of pain in his head. It went dark in my eyes, and the next second I threw up. Through the pain and spasms that shook my body, as if through cotton wool, I heard someone's male scream from behind me:
– Sister! Nikitichna! The boy is sick!

There was a heavy and rapid slapping of slippers, the door opened, and the light flashed on. I took all this in a detached way, as my dizzy head and rolling nausea absorbed all my attention.

– Kid, how are you?! I'm awake, thank God! And why did you get up?! Get down! Get down quickly! – but, apparently, when she saw the traces of vomit on my underpants and on the floor, she immediately changed her mind. – Wait! I'm going to call a doctor and clean it up! You just sit there and don't move! Semenov! Keep an eye on the guy here! I'm alive!

The last words came from outside the door. Then I remember the basin on the floor at my feet, the bustle of hands taking off my underwear and washing my body and face, and after a while I found myself lying under a blanket, and the doctor's face bent over me. Consciousness immediately noted the white cap on his head, round glasses on his nose and a small curly beard. His face is tense. It was obvious that the man was confused and worried.

– How are you feeling?! Are you dizzy? Are you sick?

–No,– I replied slowly, listening to my feelings. – So far everything is fine. I just really want to sleep.
