The turn of the court order

Sometimes citizens find out that they have been charged money by court order, only from an SMS message from the bank about the amount being debited. Why is this happening? The fact is that the judge does not hold meetings by order — he simply examines the documents and makes a decision in just 5 days. Such a simplified penalty can be appealed. To get the money back after the cancellation, the defendant asks for a reversal of the court order.
The essence of the court order

A court order is a resolution issued by a judge alone on the recovery of money or on the recovery of movable property according to the claims of the plaintiff. The price of the debt is up to five hundred thousand rubles.

The procedure is very simple. The creditor submits an application for an order and evidence confirming the existence of debt, and the court issues an act of satisfaction of the claims. Writ proceedings take place without calling the parties, and strict procedural requirements are not imposed on the application. Banks, micro-credit organizations, housing and communal services organizations and other creditors prefer such an operational way of debt collection rather than a long lawsuit.

A writ of execution is not needed in this case. A court order is an enforcement document that is sent to bailiffs to initiate proceedings.

The debtor can file objections to the court order, but for this he has only 10 days from the date when a copy of the order arrived by mail. If a person does not receive mail, he learns about the court's decision after the fact — when the order came into force. A record of the debt will appear on Public Services, and the money will be debited from the card by order of the bailiff.

It happens that a citizen agrees with the debt. Then there is no need to appeal anything.

If the defendant is not satisfied with this state of affairs, he can challenge the recovery and ask for a reversal of the court order in order to return the illegally collected money and remove restrictions.
Cancellation of the order

The reversal of the court order is carried out after the cancellation of the decision on recovery. To do this, the defendant submits his objections to the magistrate's court (an application for the cancellation of the order).

Objection to
the docx court order
— 20.8 KB

Read the instructions for sending objections to the cancellation of the act here.

Article 128 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation obliges to send a copy of the order to the debtor within five days. But it happens that for a number of reasons (poor mail operation, change of residence, damage to the mailbox, etc.) the document does not reach the addressee. The law gives only ten days to appeal the act. If the defendant does not receive the mail and misses the ten-day deadline for canceling the order, the document will enter into force. Then the citizen learns about the issued act only when money is already written off from him, property is arrested during a sudden visit by the bailiff or travel abroad is prohibited.

What should I do if the defendant did not find out about the court in time and missed the procedural deadline for appeal?

An order that has entered into force can be appealed, even when it has actually been executed. To do this, the judge who issued the order submits objections to the order and a petition to restore the missed deadline.

Sample petition for the restoration of the deadline for filing objections to the cancellation of the court order
docx
— 14 KB

You can restore the missed deadline by specifying a valid reason for not receiving the document and providing supporting materials.

The Plenum of the Supreme Court in paragraph 30 indicates that a citizen, legal entity or sole proprietor is responsible for their failure to receive a copy of the court order for a disrespectful reason.

In support of the respectfulness of missing the procedural period, provide evidence of the physical impossibility of obtaining a copy of the act on time:

copies of business trip documents;
certificate of being on sick leave in a hospital;
incorrectly filled in debtor's address;
change of residence;
the act of the absence of a mailbox or its damage.

Due to the epidemiological situation, there was a precedent when the debtor could not receive a decision due to being in quarantine, and the court agrees with these arguments.

The documents are submitted to the magistrate's court, which issued the order. You can find out the document number and the judge at the bank through which the money was debited, or at the bailiff service.

A simple option is to look at the order number on the website in the FSSP database and call the court to find out the details. You can get a copy of the act by writing a petition for its issuance.

The debtor submits an objection to the court order. It is not necessary to explain the reasons in the objections, to prove the illegality of the penalty. It is enough to express your objection and ask to cancel the contested act — in civil proceedings, in accordance with Article 129 of the CPC of the Russian Federation, there are enough such grounds for a court.

The advantages of revoking a court order for the debtor:

It is possible to return the debited funds;
Bans and restrictive measures are being lifted from property;
The issue of debt collection will be resolved in the order of claim proceedings, which will give the opportunity to participate in meetings and challenge the fact of debt, its amount, fines and penalties imposed;
If the limitation period is missed, debt collection becomes impossible.

How to cancel a court order on a loan
Related article

You can get a ruling on the cancellation of the disputed act either in person at the office or by mail to the debtor's address.

If enforcement proceedings are conducted by order of the bailiff, then in order to terminate it, it is necessary to apply to the FSSP with an application, to which a certified copy of the judge's ruling on the cancellation of the previously issued court order should be attached.

In the case of credit indebtedness, a copy of the definition should be provided to the executing bank with an application for termination of collection.
How to achieve a solution reversal

The court's ruling on the cancellation of the court order does not automatically entail the return of the written-off money. If the bailiff has already transferred the money to the recoverer, a turnaround in the execution of the judicial act is necessary. Such a legal procedure is possible after the cancellation of the order and before the filing of the claim by the creditor, otherwise the court session will be held in the order of ordinary proceedings.

Sample application for the reversal of the execution of a court order (if the money has already been recovered)
docx
— 13.3 KB
A statement on the reversal of a court decision A statement on the reversal of a court decision

The debtor, having a ruling on the cancellation of the court order, must file an application to the court in the name of the same judge for the reversal of the court order. In it, you can ask for a writ of execution.

The applicant will need to attach a number of documents:

A court ruling on the cancellation of a court order with the seal of the court and a mark of entry into force;
A document confirming the fact of collection and the amount of the amount written off. This may be a bank statement, but it is worth taking it not in an online application, but from the bank employee himself, who will certify the document with a live seal.

If the deductions were made from wages, then you can take a certificate of money retention at work. In case of seizure of property, the decision of the bailiff will serve as a supporting document.
The bailiff's decision on the termination of enforcement proceedings.
Bank details of your account, where to transfer the collected amount.

Important: you must send the creditor a copy of the application with an attachment. The documents are sent by registered mail, a receipt for shipment is needed for the court. Filing an application for reversal of a court decision in case of cancellation of a court order is not subject to state duty. The issue will be considered in accordance with Article 444 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation.

Statement on the reversal of the execution of the court order
Related article

The court will consider the application and issue a ruling on the turnaround, which will take effect in 15 days. According to the court document that has entered into force, a writ of execution will be issued to receive money. Now the original creditor will become your debtor. The sheet can be picked up, then:

independently submit it to the bailiff's department at the place of registration of the claimant;
or apply to a bank where the debtor (former recoverer) has a current account. If a bank, MFO, collectors or a housing and communal services company illegally collected money by order, it is not difficult to find out the place of their registration and bank account details — they are indicated on the website.
If the operative part of the decision on the turn indicates that the court itself sends the writ of execution to the bailiff service, then you should not worry — the document will be sent and the funds will be returned, or the seizure of property will be canceled.

The reversal of the court order is possible on appeal if one of the parties disagrees with the decision.
Deadlines

Article 443 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation draws attention to the fact that in order to file an application for the circulation of a court order, it is important that there is no claim proceedings in this case.

It is necessary to raise the issue of turning the court order after its cancellation, but before the creditor submits a claim for debt collection. Otherwise, the issue will be considered within the framework of the claim proceedings, and this already entails longer consideration periods and strict procedural procedure.

The deadline for submitting a request to reverse the execution of the order and refund the money is 3 years from the date of cancellation of the order.
When they refuse to turn the execution

Analyzing judicial practice, it can be concluded that applications for the reversal of the execution of a court order of a justice of the peace are satisfied in most cases. Refusals are mainly related to the improper appeal of citizens to the court, for example:

There is no copy of the ruling on the cancellation of the order;
There are no documents confirming the fact of money withdrawal/seizure;
Unsuitable certificates and statements have been attached (for example, an unverified statement from an online bank);
The claimant still filed a statement of claim.

Before sending the application, you should once again verify its completeness and sufficiency of evidence.
Consequences of the reversal of the execution of the order
